# Deployment

### Heroku deployment
Although deployed from its GitHub repository, the project is hosted by Heroku. In order to deploy to Heroku, the following steps should be followed:
1. Create an account at [Heroku](https://heroku.com/) and log in.
2. Choose 'create new app' from the drop down menu labelled 'new'.
3. Give the app an appropriate name and choose the closest region from the dropdown list, then click 'create app'.
4. From the 'resources' tab, search for and select Heroku Postgres from the add-ons. Also choose 'Hobby Dev – Free plan'.
5. From the Heroku dashboard, navigate to the 'deploy' tab, 'deployment method' section and select 'connect to GitHub'. 
6. Search for your GitHub repository and click 'connect'.
7. Select 'Automatic Deploys'.
8.	In order for a Django project to be deployed on Heroku, use `pip3 install' to install the following packages from your IDE:
•	gnicorn
•	psycopg2-binary
•	dj-database-url
9.	To make sure the app has all the required modules, run `pip3 freeze > requirements.txt` in your IDE terminal.
10.	Still in the terminal, create a Procfile by typing `web: gunicorn jiira.wsgi:application`.
11.	As I didn’t use a fixtures file to populate the database, run the following to create a json file for populating the Heroku Postgres database:
    `python3 manage.py dumpdata --exclude auth.permission --exclude contenttypes > db.json`
12. In `settings.py`, comment out the existing Sqlite DATABASES and replace the default `DATABASE` setting with the 'database_url' (found in the app's config vars in Heroku) using the following code:
```
DATABASES = {
        'default': dj_database_url.parse(<DATABASE_URL>)
    }
```
13.	Now connected to the Postgres database, it can be populated by running the following:
python3 manage.py showmigrations
python3 manage.py migrate
python3 manage.py loaddata db.json
14. To be able to login to the Postgres database, create a new superuser (and then follow the instructions in the terminal):
`python3 manage.py createsuperuser`
15. Log into Heroku via your IDE terminal using 'heroku login -i'.
16. SO that no static files are transferred, type `heroku config:set COLLECTSTATIC=1 --app <app_name>`
17. In 'settings.py' add the Heroku app's host name:
`ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['<hostname>', 'localhost']`
18. Still in 'settings.py', change the 'DATABASE' section in order that it retrieves the correct value (Heroku Postgres for live, Django SQLite for testing):
```
if 'DATABASE_URL' in os.environ:
    DATABASES = {
        'default': dj_database_url.parse(os.environ.get('<DATABASE_URL>'))
    }
else:
    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
            'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
        }
    }
```
19.	In Stripe, add Heroku app URL a new webhook endpoint.
20.	Update 'settings.py' with the new Stripe environment variables and email settings.
21.	Git add, commit and push all changes to GitHub.
22. In the Heroku dashboard, navigate to the 'settings' tab, 'config vars' section and enter the following key value pairs:
    * AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID - AWS access key.
    * AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY - AWS secret key.
    * DATABASE_URL - Your Postgres database URL 
    * EMAIL_HOST_PASS - Your Email Password (generated by Gmail)
    * EMAIL_HOST_USER - Your Email Address
    * DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC - Created this during step 17.
    * SECRET_KEY - Your Django secret key (I used Djecrety to generate mine)
    * STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY - Stripe public key
    * STRIPE_SECRET_KEY - Stripe secret key
    * STRIPE_WH_SECRET - Stripe webhook key
    * USE_AWS - True
23. The app can now be launched directly from Heroku (or at https://ENTER-APP-NAME.herokuapp.com) and will automatically update to the latest version each time commits are pushed to Github.


### AWS and S3 Bucket Setup
1. Create an [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) account (choose the free tier) and login.
2. Navigate to the management console, search for "S3" to be taken to the S3 dashboard.
3. Click 'create bucket' button
4. Give it a name (same as app name on Heroku), select the region closest to you, allow public access and then click on 'create'.
4. From the dashboard, go to the bucket's properties tabe and select 'static website hosting'.
    * Select "use this bucket to host a website".
5. Set the home/default page to  `index.html` and error link as `error.html`, then save.
5. On the permissions tab, edit the 'CORS configuration' as follows and save when done:
```
[
  {
      "AllowedHeaders": [
          "Authorization"
      ],
      "AllowedMethods": [
          "GET"
      ],
      "AllowedOrigins": [
          "*"
      ],
      "ExposeHeaders": []
  }
]
```
6. Go to the bucket policy section and click 'edit' and then 'policy generator'.
7. In the newly opened window, selct 'S3 Bucket Policy'
8. Next, set the following options:
    * Allow all principals by using `*`.
    * Set action to "GetObject".
    * Amazon Resource Name (ARN) – Copy and paste in the value found on the previous page, under 'Bucket ARN'.
    * Click 'Add statement' and then 'Generate policy' 
    * Copy and paste the json file shown into to bucket policy.
    * Make sure to add `/*` at the end of the 'Resource' key to allow access to all resources.
    * Click 'save'.
7. Navigate to the Access Control List (ACL) tab and set the list objects to 'everyone' under the Public Access section and click 'save'


### IAM (Identity and Access Management) Setup
1. Navigate to the AWS management console, search for 'IAM' and open it.
2. Select 'Groups' from the menu, click 'create new group' giving it a relevant name.
3. Select 'Policies'from the menu and then 'create policy'.
4. Select the JSON tab and click the 'import managed policy'.
5. Search for and import 'Amazon S3 Full Access'.
8. Copy your ARN and place it in the code so that it looks like the below;
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:*",
                "s3-object-lambda:*"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::<YOUR-ARN>",
                "arn:aws:s3:::<YOUR-ARN>/*"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
8. Click on next until you get to 'review the policy', give it a name and a description and click 'create'.
9. Back on the policy page, navigate to 'user groups' and click 'manage group name'
10. Click 'Attach policies'm then search for and select the policy you created in step 8 above.
11. Then click 'users" from the menu, then 'add user' and give it a relevant name.
12. Give this user 'programatic access' and add it to the newly created group.
13. Click through 'next' and then 'create user'.
14. Finally, make sure to download the .csv file you see there and save it. This file contains essential secret keys.


### Setting for static/media files in settings.py
1. Install boto3 and django-storages via the terminal in your IDE to connect AWS S3 bucket to Django.
pip3 install boto3
pip3 install django-storages
2. Run pip3 freeze > requirements.txt.
3. Add 'storages' to INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py.
4. Open the .csv file you save from the previous section and copy the AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY values to the Config Vars in Heroku.
5. Remove the DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC variable.
6. Back in your terminal, create a new file called 'custom_storages.py' and enter the following code:
```
from django.conf import settings
from storages.backends.s3boto3 import S3Boto3Storage


class StaticStorage(S3Boto3Storage):
    location = settings.STATICFILES_LOCATION


class MediaStorage(S3Boto3Storage):
    location = settings.MEDIAFILES_LOCATION
```
7. Go to 'settings.py' and add the following:
```
if 'USE_AWS' in os.environ:
    # Cache control
    AWS_S3_OBJECT_PARAMETERS = {
        'Expires': 'Thu, 31 Dec 2099 20:00:00 GMT',
        'CacheControl': 'max-age=94608000',
    }
    
    # Bucket Config
    AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME = 'jiira'
    AWS_S3_REGION_NAME = 'eu-west-2'
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = os.environ.get('AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID')
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = os.environ.get('AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY')
    AWS_S3_CUSTOM_DOMAIN = f'{AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME}.s3.amazonaws.com'

    # Static and media files
    STATICFILES_STORAGE = 'custom_storages.StaticStorage'
    STATICFILES_LOCATION = 'static'
    DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE = 'custom_storages.MediaStorage'
    MEDIAFILES_LOCATION = 'media'

    # Override static and media URLs in production
    STATIC_URL = f'https://{AWS_S3_CUSTOM_DOMAIN}/{STATICFILES_LOCATION}/'
    MEDIA_URL = f'https://{AWS_S3_CUSTOM_DOMAIN}/{MEDIAFILES_LOCATION}/'
```
8. Finally, Git add, commit and push all changes to GitHub.